As the Copyright/Copyleft/etc. status of some of the files in Sauerbraten has 
not been made clear by the Sauerbraten team, and there are accusations flying 
around about Copyright Violation(TM) and other evil sins, I started to look 
through all the files which were used in EDM unmodified from the Sauerbraten 
distribution, hoping to clear things up. There are several groups of files which 
have no copyright or author info. If you know these are yours, and can tell me 
whether they are either public domain, or GPL'ed, Zlib licensed, or Non-Free 
(plain copyrighted), that would help us all a lot. Maybe we can sort this all 
out. I list here all the files as I have them on my hard disk and what I think 
their "legal status (TM)" is. If you disagree with anything, or know something 
which I do not, drop a note to me here: j-kroll@gmx.de. Thanks. 

I marked things which I think are problematic to use in Sauerbraten and/or Mods 
of it with "****", and things where I was not sure with "?". 


bin/
Several DLL files are here. I have: fmod.dll libpng1.dll readme_SDL.txt SDL.dll 
SDL_mixer.dll jpeg.dll msvcr71.dll SDL_image.dll zlib.dll - Not sure if all of 
them may be redistributed freely and legally. Maybe someone can clear things up. 
**** 

bin_unix/
contains the sauerbraten binaries, no problem here. 

data/
several .cfg files here, which probably count as source code, and as such fall 
under zlib licence. Also, 4 PNG files with no readme, copyright info or 
permission whatsoever. Possibly "illegally redistributed" by Sauerbraten and any 
Mods, eg EDM. **** 

data/martin/
several PNG files here without readme, author or permission info. Possibly 
"illegally redistributed" by Sauerbraten and any Mods, eg EDM. **** 

docs/
in sauerbraten this contains the sauer docs, in edm there's just a tiny 
index.html. No problems here 


packages/

packages/aard
Readme by Aard says it's "completely free to use in any way you like", no 
problems here 

packages/base
maps base folder -- no copyright info, some maps contain author info, 
specifically made for Sauerbraten. Not used or repackaged in EDM any more 

packages/cube
maps converted from cube format get saved here, empty folder 

packages/dash
includes author info and a "free but please give me credit" Readme, no problems 
here as the readme is included and credit given 

packages/dg
and packages/dg_new
no readme, author or permission info ****

Update: these textures are made by David Gurrea, thanks tentus for giving me 
this url. The page says they are free to use in non-commercial games. Added 
readme.txt to EDM. 

packages/edm
our stuff, no problems using this in sauerbraten or edm 

packages/egyptsoc
includes author info and a "free but please give me credit" Readme, no problems 
here as the readme is included and credit given 

packages/golgotha
2 almost identical water textures, 1 of them darker than the other. No readme, 
author or copyright info. **** 

packages/ik2k
ik textures and envmaps, contains author info and a "free but please give me 
credit" Readme, no problems here 

packages/ikbase
ik textures, contains author info and a "free but please give me credit" Readme, 
no problems here 

packages/jf1
textures, contains author info and a "free but please give me credit" Readme, no 
problems here (although they look *very very much* like some original quake 1 
(TM) textures, hehe...) 

packages/kurt
5 textures, no author info or readme, could be from kurtis84 guessing from the 
name but no idea **** 


packages/models/
packages/models/boost
Health powerup, no author info, probably dcp? 

packages/models/bridge
no author info, ? 

packages/models/bullets
no author info, dcp? 

packages/models/carrot
no author info, ? 

packages/models/dcp
several other models by dcp, this time with Readme saying "if you want to use 
them for something else than cube, please drop me a line, i just want to 
know..." (I sent him an email) 

packages/models/edm
our stuff, no problems using this in edm or sauerbraten 

packages/models/g_armour
armour model, has author info and Readme with part of the GPL that says "This 
program is free software;" well we use Von Neumann machines so data is code, and 
code is data, alright... 

packages/models/gibc
another model distributed under the GPL 

packages/models/gibc
another model distributed under the GPL 

packages/models/health
health, no author info, possibly dcp. ? 

packages/models/hudguns
Hudguns. "Please-tell-me-if-you-modify"-style Readme says they are by DarthVim, 
but I think at least the fist and Pistol are by makkE. **** 

Update: Got permission from makkE to use his pistol and fist in EDM. Readme 2
Status of the rest of the models still unclear, makkE says:

>>The mg-style chaingun is made by dcp. The darthvim models. I have enhanced the 
skins a little before the last cube update I think.

I had tried to contact Darthvim, and though I found traces of him in a dead 
doom3 forum and on other places, none of the email, pming and msn and other 
im´s have been succesful. 

But since he says:
Copyrihgt info: "Please ask me bevore you want to change things on it and send 
me you weapon (so that i can have a look on it :=)"
, and I improved them while keeping the general design direction and made them 
to stay with the official cube, I assumed I was at least acting in accordance to 
his will. (I hope) Still, the copyright is with him therefore.
Unfortunately this is a very grey area. Darthvim was stating the hands on the 
models were´nt actually made by him, I suspect they have been taken from a q2 
addon model.<< 



packages/models/makke
Models by makkE, no readme. Plain Copyright according to makkE. Removed from 
EDM. 

packages/models/monsters
monster models. All of them include readmes and author info, some of them seem 
to be free to use, but I'm not sure about the Knight ("The PKnight model is 
copyright 1998 by James Green"), and the Rhino model:

               ---------------------------------------
                   This work remains the property of

                             The Coven
                  http://www.planetquake.com/TheCoven/
               ---------------------------------------
So it's just plain Copyrighted(TM). I think these should be removed from EDM, 
and also from Sauerbraten and Cube until Aardappel can show he has permission to 
use them. **** 


packages/models/nieb/nothing
I will ask nieb for permission to use Nothing. (or maybe just delete it) 

packages/models/objects
has a readme that says "by nieb". Should be polite and ask for permission for 
EDM or remove it **** 

packages/models/quad
GPL, no problem here 

packages/models/rockets
packages/models/rrounds
packages/models/shells
packages/models/switch1+2
packages/models/teleporter
No readme, probably dcp. ? 

packages/models/tentus
tentus' models. These are the only models I ever used in an EDM map, and I got 
permission from tentus. 

packages/models/tree1
packages/models/vegetation
vegetation models, with no readme or other info. **** 

packages/models/y_armor
GPL 




SOOOOOOOOO...... that were the models. 




packages/nieb
envmap textures probably by nieb. no other info. **** 

packages/payne
Textures probably ripped from Max Payne, Readme states they're free, kind of 

packages/rorschach
includes author info and a "free but please give me credit" Readme, no problems 
here as the readme is included and credit given 

packages/schwenz
Readme says "One particularly cool texture from the "asylum" set by Schwenz (who 
hadn't included a readme with the archive, shame on him)." ? 


packages/socksky
Contains a Readme with contact info but no copyright details. However Sock's 
download page where you can get the files says "All use of my digital work is 
covered by this Creative Commons Deed. Please do not not use my work for any 
commercial purposes." Apparently no problem here. 


packages/sounds
Contains a Readme which says most of the the files should be free. except: 
there's nothing about the ppm/ subdir and no extra readme there. And the awesund 
Readme says that "please include this text file and see that everything remains 
unedited and unchanged." However another Readme says some files were changed. I 
think this has been in there since Cube. **** 


packages/staffy
some black textures without readme. **** 


packages/subverse
Has a "please give me credit"-Readme, looks ok 

packages/tech1soc
Has a "please give me credit"-Readme, no problems here 

packages/than_ind
Has a Readme which only says you may not modify it. ? 




/ (root bin-dir)


contains autoexec.cfg, config.cfg and the like, which I guess fall under "source 
code", and the start scripts, the same. Possibly the readme_*.txt files here are 
Copyright(C)(TM) Aardappel, and should not be redistributed in a mod or fork. I 
removed them from edm.




